== Data Acquisition

Working with PulseView follows a pattern:

image::pv_nodevice.png[]
<1> Open a new session
<2> Select the device you want to work with:
<3> Click "Run" to acquire signal data (waiting for a trigger first if you set one)

When you start PulseView and no sessions are restored from the last time you used it, it will
come up with a session that has the demo device selected. That way, you can get to know the
program even when you don't have any hardware to use it with.

=== Device Selection

The device selector offers two methods to choose the device to use. If you click on the small
arrow on the side, you see a list of devices PulseView has recognized. If the device you want
to use it listed, you can just select it here to use it.

image::device_selector_dropdown.png[]

If it's not listed, you'll need to scan for it first. Since most serial port and Ethernet
devices can't be auto-detected, this is usually required for those.
To do so, either choose the "Connect to Device" option from the list or click on the button
itself. You will see the following dialog:

image::device_selector_scan.png[]

First, you'll need to pick a driver that you want to use. In order to do this, you'll need
to know which driver is used to talk to the device. If you're unsure, you can either try the
driver which you think may fit best or you can check the wiki. For every supported device there's
a wiki page, showing you which driver is used.

Once the driver has been chosen, you need to select the interface. Please be aware that USB
is only usable for devices that directly communicate over USB. Devices that use USB to emulate
a serial port (like the OpenBench Logic Sniffer) will have their serial port listed in the
serial port drop-down.

In case your device connects via Ethernet, you must supply the IP address and port. You are
also given the option to choose between raw TCP access and using the VXI protocol. VXI is an
industry standard which is mainly used in professional equipment and the device will most
likely let you know that it supports VXI. If your device however is more of a hobbyist grade
device, it's more likely that using raw TCP will be the correct choice.

After you selected the appropriate options, clicking the scan button will make PulseView try
to connect to the device with the given settings. If successful, any device(s) found will be
shown in the list box.

[NOTE]
When a session uses a USB device and you close Pulseview, a session with that same device
is re-opened when you start Pulseview again. Currently, this is however not the case for non-USB
devices, such as ones that connect via serial port or Ethernet.

[NOTE]
To avoid having to manually enter the device configuration for a serial port or Ethernet
device every time you want to use it and then having to scan for it, you can also use the
command line parameter -d to have PulseView scan for it on startup.

You may then change the device configuration and/or start the data acquisition by clicking
the "Run" button on the top left.

When you run the acquisition, you'll notice that the newly captured data goes off-screen.
This is to improve performance and let PulseView acquire the data without bogging down your
CPU too much. If you find this inconvenient because you'd like to see what kind of data is
coming in, you have three options:

* Enable "always perform zoom-to-fit" temporarily (see chapter "Data Analysis")
* Enable "constantly perform zoom-to-fit during acquisition" in the options
* Enable "always keep newest samples at the right edge during capture" in the options

Which method suits you best is up for you to decide.

=== Device Configuration

In PulseView, the device configuration is done using these buttons:

image::pv_device_config.png[]
<1> Device-specific settings
<2> Channel-specific settings
<3> Number of samples to capture
<4> Sample rate at which to capture the samples
<5> Per-channel trigger setting (see below)

The values offered for those four elements depend on your device. Which settings you should choose
depends on several factors: the needs of your measurement, the device you use to capture the data
and the capabilities of your computer.

The sample rate you choose must at least be twice that of the highest frequency you want to
capture - ideally 3 to 5 times as much so that you have some margin. That way, a jittering signal
won't ruin your measurements.

[NOTE]
If you're using a device with a Cypress FX2 (most 8 channel / 24 MHz logic analyzers do) then you should
be aware that the 24 MHz sampling rate (12 MHz for 16 channels) can only be sustained under perfect
conditions. Usually, those devices are shipped with low-quality USB cables, impairing USB transfers as
USB traffic increases. Therefore, you can try a different USB cable if you're facing issues at higher
sample rates. If they persist, it's worth trying a different USB port as well.

=== Triggers

The signal labels on the left side of the view (D0, D1 and so on in the picture above) allow you to
configure certain aspects of these signals. If the device supports it then the trigger that will be
used for this signal will be among them.

As of now, the trigger system is awaiting extension for advanced and complex trigger types, meaning
that the only triggers available to you are:

* Trigger when the signal has a "low" level
* Trigger when the signal has a "high" level
* Trigger when the signal switches from "low" to "high" level (rising edge)
* Trigger when the signal switches from "hig" to "low" level (falling edge)
* Trigger when the signal changes level in any way (any edge)

Once you choose a trigger, the icon for the type you chose becomes visible on the right side of the
trace view.

When you click "Run" with a trigger configured, PulseView will wait for the device to trigger and
send data before it can show anything. There is currently no frame limit, so if the device driver
supports it, PulseView will continue arming the trigger and collecting data until you either click
"Stop" or it runs out of memory.

=== Channel Groups

Some devices share certain settings between a group of channels, which is why PulseView may show
the channels your device offers in groups. You can see which channels are grouped by looking at the
dark gray bar on the left. If there is none, no channels are grouped.

Currently, the grouping is only done for your convenience and there's no direct functional impact.
This means that you're free to ungroup and group channels as you please. To do so, right-click
on the dark gray bar and select "Ungroup".
If you want to create a new group, select the signals you want to group by holding down CTRL
and clicking on the signal labels. Once you have selected the ones you want to be grouped,
right-click on one of the labels you selected and choose "Group".

